When refactoring the game, the first thing i did was break up the wall class since it not only had level generation but also the game's main logic. This did not adhere to single-responsibility so i refactored the wall class by splitting it up into what is now the Levels class and the GameModel class. I then refactored GameBoard since it had both the user input and the visual components of the game. GameBoard turned into what is now GameController and GameView for the controls and the visual components respectively. This way, the project now adheres to MVC through GameModel, GameView and GameController. Throughout this process, I removed any redundancies that showed up as a result of splitting the classes up.

When making additions to the game, the first thing i did was make the ball able to accelerate over time to make the game more fast paced and challenging. To compensate, I also added the ability for the player to sprint by moving while holding down the shift key. I also added an info screen in the main menu so the player can view the instructions for the game, as well as reworked the main menu to look a lot nicer by adding a background image instead of having the main menu be comprised of only 1 colour, and added a button to access the info screen. I also implemented a high score system that takes into account the current speed of the ball, as well as the type of brick destroyed in order to calculate the player's score. This score is then compared to a list of currently stored high scores in a save file, which is updated accordingly.

I then created a new class: Powerup, that represents various powerups that can spawn in game. These powerups spawn in a random location in a given bound on the screen. From this class i created 2 new classes. Multiball and Extra Life. Extra Life increases the amount of balls you have by 1 whenever you pick it up. Multiball spawns 3 smaller balls in the location of the ball that grabbed the powerup. These balls can destroy bricks, be bounced off of the player, do not accelerate, and do not punish the player when they fall down. Each level has a predetermined number of multiballs and extralives.

After this, i then added a new level type that takes in 3 types of bricks to create a striped level that alternates between those 3 types.
